Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to show an adventure, comedy,
and family film called, “The Witches.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Luke Eveshim is a brave and precocious 8-year-old
boy visiting his grandmother, Helga, in Norway,
together with his parents.
Helga is a loving and doting grandmother to
Luke, sharing with him stories about her childhood.
On one particular night, as they make candles
together, Helga tells Luke about witches.
Not the green-skinned, broom-flying witches
on television, but rather the real witches
who dress in ordinary clothes and look like
ordinary women.
Every country in the world has witches and
in each country they have a leader called
the high witch.
But the evilest woman in creation, the leader
of all the witches, is the Grand High Witch
herself.
Witches spend their time stalking and plotting
to get rid of children.
Helga shows her missing pinky finger to her
grandson, a painful proof of her unpleasant
encounter with a witch.
She then tells Luke about her childhood friend
and neighbor, Erica, who was taken by a witch.
Even though Erica had very strict parents,
it didn’t save her, because when a witch
chooses a victim, the only way to escape is
to know everything about them.
Real witches hate children.
They have bald heads and wear itchy wigs that
give them scalp rash.
They look hideous behind their human masks
and they have no toes and wear plain shoes
to cover their square-ended feet.
The only way to distinguish them from real
people is to look for the purple tinge in
their eyes.
Unfortunately, little Erica didn’t know
about these things.
When she was sent to Larsen’s to buy a liter
of milk, she never came back home.
Everyone in the town searched for miles around
but she had completely disappeared.
Young Helga visited Erica’s parents six
weeks later.
When Erica’s father entered the room, he
looked as if he had seen a ghost, for there
in his painting, as if it always had been
there, was little Erica, locked in the painting,
gazing at them.
Through the years, the girl in the painting
moved.
One day she’d be feeding the ducks and the
next day she’d be inside the farmhouse.
The girl grew older too and until six years
ago, the old woman that Erica had become disappeared
completely.
As Helga tucks Luke into bed, his parents
enter the room and kiss him goodbye before
they attend a dinner party.
Luke begs his grandmother to tell him one
more story.
Helga then tells him about witches and their
highly-developed sense of smell.
They could smell a clean child from miles
away.
If a child is dirty, it’s the dirt they
smell, but if the child is clean, they smell
like fresh dogs’ droppings to witches.
Helga warns him that if he ever sees a woman
holds her nose as she passes by him, she could
probably well be a witch.
She then kisses him goodnight and turns off
the light.
When Luke wakes up the next morning, he finds
his parents’ bedroom empty.
A police car drives up to the house and the
officers inform Helga that Luke’s parents
had died from a terrible accident.
Luke joins his crying grandmother in the living
room and they hold each other in a sad embrace.
After the accident, Luke moves to England
with his grandmother where she has a big house
and garden.
He attends school and plays in his treehouse,
just like any other child.
One afternoon, Luke is up playing in his treehouse
when a woman in a black coat dress approaches
him.
She tries to make him come down, tempting
him to pet her snake, but Luke sees the purple
tinge in her eyes.
It’s a witch!
He starts yelling for his grandmother, but
the witch wouldn’t leave him alone.
She offers him a bar of chocolate and sneers
at him, telling him that his grandmother can’t
hear him.
She calls him by his name and this frightens
Luke, who climbs higher up the tree.
Suddenly, Helga calls out for his grandson,
looking for him.
The witch stops in her tracks and walks away,
shooting glares at the boy.
As soon as she’s gone, the snake she left
disappears too.
Luke tells his grandmother about the witch
and Helga tells him that she believes him.
On Luke’s ninth birthday, Helga gifts him
two pet rats whom Luke names as William and
Mary.
Helga faints during the celebrations and they
bring in a doctor.
The doctor informs Luke that his grandmother
has a mild case of diabetes so she should
stay away from sweets, drink her medicine,
and get some rest, recommending a seaside
vacation to do her some good.
Helga apologizes to her grandson for ruining
his birthday, but he doesn’t mind.
The next day, Luke and his grandmother travel
to a big hotel near the ocean for their vacation.
After they check into their rooms, a very
tall and striking woman enters the lobby.
It’s Miss Eva Ernst, the chairwoman hosting
the 5th national convention for The Royal
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
The women in the room gasp in excitement at
the sight of her.
She meets the owner of the hotel, Mr. Stringer,
a beanpole of a man, and refers him to her
secretary, Miss Irvine.
As Miss Ernst goes up to her room, she spots
a painting on the wall with a little child.
She smirks at it and then turns away to the
elevator.
The little child in the painting slowly fades
away.
Meanwhile, Luke goes exploring on his own
in the hotel.
At the dining area, he meets a gluttonous
but friendly boy, Bruno Jenkins.
Mr. Stringer has also got his hands full when
one of the maids runs out of the rooms with
frantic screams and tells him about the rats
she found.
He goes to Luke’s room and finds his pet
rats in its cage.
Helga blackmails Mr. Stringer into letting
Luke keep his rats or else she’ll report
the hotel to the health office.
The hotel owner reluctantly agrees under the
strict condition that the rats must be kept
in the cage at all times.
Back in the dining room, Helga and Luke have
come down for tea.
Helga spots Miss Ernst across the room and
feels that she’s seen the woman from somewhere.
Assuming that she’s probably from television,
she accidentally drinks her coffee with sugar.
Across the tables, Miss Ernst has spotted
Helga with Luke and looks over to Bruno Jenkins’s
table with a sinister smile on her face and
a dark gleam in her eyes.
Luke and his grandmother return to their rooms.
Helga rests as Luke takes out his pets and
sets out to explore the hotel.
He enters the banquet hall which has been
temporarily transformed to accommodate the
convention and plays behind one of the room
separators.
As Luke trains his rats, the doors to the
banquet open, and in comes Miss Ernst with
her group of ladies.
Luke spots the tinge of purple in their eyes
and is alarmed.
But before he can escape, one of the ladies
locks up the doors.
Miss Ernst takes the stage and starts the
convention.
With the hall fully secured, Miss Ernst orders
them to reveal their true selves.
The ladies take off their shoes and gloves,
revealing their stubbed feet and long claws.
They toss aside their wigs and show off their
bald heads full of scalp rash.
Luke gasps in horror as he realizes where
he is.
It’s a coven full of witches!
Miss Ernst takes off her human mask, assisted
by her mistreated assistant, Miss Irvine,
and finally reveals her final form.
A bald, aging, woman with large ears, pointed
nose, and wrinkly, decaying, skin, the most
terrible and evil of them all, Miss Ernst
is the Grand High Witch!
Miss Ernst berates the coven, telling them
that wiping out one child a week isn’t enough,
and demands that every child in England must
be eliminated.
One witch whispers to another one telling
her that it can’t be possible to wipe out
all of them.
Unlucky for her, the Grand High Witch hears
this.
The other witches step away from the outspoken
witch as Miss Ernst casts her horrible spell
and strikes at the poor woman, wiping her
out from existence.
The Grand High Witch then begins telling them
her master plan.
She has a trunk full of money in her hotel
room that she’ll be giving out to these
witches so that they could buy sweet shops
or candy stores of their own.
Once the sweet shop is in place, they will
announce a big gala opening, offering free
candy for every child.
And mixed with this candy will be her special
potion, Magic Formula number 86.
Five doses of this potion will turn any person,
especially a child, into a mouse almost instantaneously.
As proof that the potion works, Miss Ernst
brings in Bruno, whom she lured earlier with
a bar of chocolate mixed with the formula.
Bruno walks into the room, unaware of the
witches in their human disguises pinching
their noses.
He’s taken to the stage and demands the
six chocolate bars that Miss Ernst promised
him.
The Grand High Witch looks at her watch, anticipating
together with the rest of the witches for
the child’s transformation.
Bruno looks at the crowd confused and demands
to know what’s going on.
At exactly 6:15, Bruno lets out a large belch
and cradles his stomach as green smoke comes
out from his mouth.
His body shrinks, a tail appears behind him,
and he’s reduced into a tiny mouse who scutters
away into the walls.
The crowd celebrates and Miss Ernst gives
further instructions.
Before the banquet that night, the witches
will come to her hotel room, room number 208,
in groups of ten.
She will give them each one bottle full of
500 doses and money to buy their sweet shop.
As they make their way out of the room, she
reminds them to bring their nose plugs because
the hall will be full of filthy children.
One of the witches stays behind to clean the
stage when she smells Luke.
She alerts the coven and they begin searching
for the child.
Luke runs out from his hiding spot, crawling
and running his way through the crowd.
He loses his glasses but he keeps on running,
escaping from their claws.
He runs into the dining area and pushes a
table to slow them down.
He then takes a chair and smashes it into
the glass door and escapes through the hole.
Luke jumps over the terrace railing, almost
getting caught by the witches’ claws, and
runs towards the beach.
As Luke hides amongst the tall weeds, Miss
Ernst approaches a sleeping nanny and her
baby in a pram.
Attempting to lure him out of his hiding spot,
she pushes the pram off the hill.
The nanny runs after the baby screaming for
help.
Luke runs after the pram as well, grabbing
it just in time before the baby falls off
the cliff.
He hands the baby back to the nanny and runs
to the beach.
He makes his way back to his grandmother’s
room but finds her deep asleep due to a dizzy
spell from her diabetes.
Miss Ernst appears in the room and takes the
boy back to the coven.
They pin him down on the table and force him
to take the whole bottle of the potion.
Luke is sent into a hazy state as green smoke
emits from his body.
He then finds himself shrunken into a mouse.
The ladies start stomping on his clothes but
Luke manages to escape into an air vent.
Meanwhile, Helga wakes up from her sleep,
sensing that something very bad has happened.
In the air vent, Luke meets up with Bruno
who’s eating a piece of cake crumb.
Even though they’ve been turned into mice,
they can still talk.
They climb up within the walls, looking for
a way out.
They run through the convention room and scutter
through the lobby avoiding detection.
They enter the elevator and hide under an
old chip bag.
Once they land on the right floor, they scamper
through the doors and into the hallway, talking
about how it wouldn’t be so bad to be a
mouse.
They hide between the towels on a parked cart
in the hallway when one of the maids accidentally
touches them.
She screams and the door to Luke’s room
opens.
Helga inspects the commotion outside as the
two mice escape into the room.
She spots one of the maids with a tinge of
purple in her eyes and immediately shuts the
door.
Luke calls out to his grandmother and she
spots him by the telephone.
She feels sad seeing her grandson in his state.
Luke tells her about the Grand High Witch
and the witches’ plan to turn every kid
in England into a mouse.
Back in the dining room, Miss Ernst meets
Bruno’s father, Herbert Jenkins, a rich
pompous man with a roving eye.
He talks to her about their convention and
the Grand High Witch is disgusted talking
to a mere human.
Meanwhile, back at the hotel room, Luke hatches
up a plan with his grandmother.
He’s going to Miss Ernst’s room, stealing
a bottle of potion, and mixing it with the
coven’s food at the banquet hall.
Helga is reluctant to let her grandson go,
fearing that it’s too dangerous, but Luke
insists that they can’t just sit and do
nothing.
She helps him into a piece of sock tied with
a long string and lets him down gently into
the balcony below them.
When Luke lands, a black cat spots him.
He seeks refuge in a plant as Helga distracts
the cat away.
With the cat busy, Luke sneaks into the Grand
High Witch’s room and makes his way to her
dresser.
At this point, Miss Ernst has finished her
conversation with Mr. Jenkins and is making
her way back to her room.
Luke stumbles upon a fake book filled with
the potions and grabs a bottle with his tail.
Miss Ernst arrives at the room and looks for
her cat, finding Helga with her dangling sock
above her room.
The witch glares at her and refers to her
as a meddling old woman that she will deal
with later.
A knock comes from Miss Ernst’s door.
The other witches have arrived to collect
their potion and money.
Back in the hallway, Luke hides under the
carpet with the bottle wrapped around his
tail.
He climbs up the stairs and all the way to
his grandmother’s room.
It’s time for the next phase of their plan.
All they have to do now is to get to the kitchen
and mix the potion with the coven’s food.
Helga carries the two mice in her handbag
to the dining room and plans to bring Bruno
back to his parents.
She approaches the Jenkins at their table
and tells them what happened to Bruno.
But when she shows them their child, Mrs.
Jenkins screams at the mouse, insisting that
she’s crazy.
Mr. Jenkins drives Helga away or else he will
call the police.
Helga runs to the hallway and sees Miss Ernst
and tries to avoid her.
Meanwhile, an unsuspecting maid in Miss Ernst’s
room rubs the potion on her neck, thinking
that it’s perfume.
Back at the dining room, the Grand High Witch
leads her coven into the banquet hall.
She berates Miss Irvine and sends her back
to her room.
Miss Irvine, sick of the mistreatment, quits
her position and goes back to her quarters.
She didn’t want to be a witch anyway.
On the other hand, Helga sneaks into the kitchen,
pretending to be a lost old lady, and puts
Luke into a sack of potatoes.
She’s escorted out by one of the staff and
is led to a table in the banquet hall.
Luke sneaks to a pot of cut potatoes and looks
for a way to mix the potion with the witches’
food.
He overhears the head chef talking about the
soup for the convention group.
Luke then has an idea.
He climbs up the cupboard and hides behind
the spices.
He notices that the cook is a witch too.
Mr. Stringer comes in and orders them to prepare
the soup.
The cook goes away to prepare the soup tureens.
With the coast clear, Luke balances himself
on a ladle and dangles on the tip.
He pushes the bottle, almost falling into
the soup himself, but manages to drop the
entire potion into the pot.
He climbs back up the ladle and watches the
cook come back and taste the soup.
Meanwhile, Mr. Stringer spots the maid who
went to Miss Ernst’s room.
He tries to kiss her neck but is turned off
by a patch of fur.
The maid inspects herself in the mirror and
is shocked to see the fur.
Luke’s plan is a success!
Now all he has to do is go back to his grandmother
and wait for the witches to eat the soup.
He jumps to a table and the chef spots him,
almost cutting the tip of his tail off.
The kitchen panics at the sight of the mouse
and Luke quickly climbs up the head chef’s
pants.
The staff helps the chef take off his pants
and Luke escapes amidst the commotion.
Meanwhile, the cook who tasted the soup is
feeling squeamish and knows something’s
wrong.
She runs to the pantry as green smoke blows
out from her body.
She shrinks into a mouse and scampers into
the banquet hall, warning the Grand High Witch
to not eat the soup.
Miss Ernst spots the mouse, but not knowing
that it’s her associate, she squashes it
with her foot.
It’s too late now.
The kitchen is now serving the soup.
Helga takes this as her cue and provides a
distraction by breaking her glasses.
Mr. Stringer comes along and insists that
he will be the one to clean it up.
Luke goes into a pan and broom just in time
as Mr. Stringer gets it to clean the mess
outside.
Now at his grandmother’s table, Luke slips
out and into Helga’s bag.
Across the room, all the witches eat the soup,
even the Grand High Witch, unaware of the
potion mixed into their meal.
Suddenly, Helga spots Mr. Jenkins who’s
about to eat the same soup too.
She runs to their table and spills the soup.
She hands them Bruno, who talks to them, telling
them that he’s their son.
Mrs. Jenkins faints as his husband looks at
his son.
Meanwhile, at the coven’s table, Miss Ernst
stands in shock as her ladies begin transforming
into mice.
Helga points at her and declares her as the
Grand High Witch, telling Bruno’s parents
that it’s all her fault.
As Miss Ernst dooms Helga, Bruno jumps into
her chest and bites her.
Green smoke comes out from Miss Ernst’s
mouth as her human disguise falls off her
face.
The hall is in total havoc now.
The kitchen staff has emerged with brooms
and knives, killing any mouse in sight.
At this point, Miss Irvine arrives at the
hall to see the commotion and she doesn’t
know whether to be shocked or delighted to
see what has become of her former group.
Helga faces the Grand High Witch, backing
her up to a corner, now a hairless filthy
rat.
She traps the witch under a glass.
She calls for Mr. Stringer and points him
to Miss Ernst, referring to her as a particularly
infectious rat.
He finds the Grand High Witch under the glass,
opens it, and cuts her open with a chopping
knife, putting an end to the evilest and terrible
woman in the world.
Helga finally hands Bruno back to his parents,
who have now accepted their son’s furry
fate.
Luke bids goodbye to Bruno as they go back
to their room and pack their things.
Before they leave, Luke asks his grandmother
to write a tag with their name and address
on it.
After that, they quickly bring their things
and load them into a taxi.
As the car drives away from the hotel, Miss
Irvine stands by one of the windows and watches
them leave, thankful for setting her free
from a horrible destiny.
Back at their home, a large trunk is delivered
to Helga.
She opens it and finds it filled with money
to the brim.
It was the money from Miss Ernst’s hotel
room!
It turns out Luke replaced the tag on the
trunk and had it delivered to them.
He tells his grandmother that they could use
the money to go to America to stop all the
witches in the country.
As they settle in for the night, Helga feels
sad that her grandson is still a mouse, even
though Luke reassures her that he doesn’t
mind it very much.
Unbeknownst to them, Miss Irvine has just
driven up their driveway.
She gets out of her car, points her finger
at the house, and casts her spell.
A bright light appears in the room, waking
Helga up as she watches Luke transform back
into a little boy.
She also gives back to Luke his glasses and
his pet rats, William and Mary.
Delighted at the turn of events, they run
to the window and wave to Miss Irvine.
Luke cries out to her, telling her to not
forget about Bruno.
Miss Irvine waves back at them, feeling good
about becoming a good witch.